Socket
A socket identifies an endpoint in a network.

Port
A port is a numbered socket on a particular machine. A server process is said to "listen" to a port until a client connects
to it. A server is allowed to access multiple clients connected to the same port number, although each session is unique.

TCP/IP protocol
Protocol through which socket communication takes place.

IP Protocol (Internet Protocol)
It is a low-level routing protocol that breaks data into small packets and sends them to an address across a network, which
does not guarantee to deliver the said packets to the destination.

TCP Protocol (Transmission Control Protocol)
It is a higher-level protocol that manages to robustly string together the data packets, sorting and retransmitting them
as necessary to reliably transmit data. It reserves the loer 1024 ports for specific protocols. e.g 21 for FTP, 23 for Telnet,
 25 for e-mail, 43 for whois, 80 for HTTP etc.

UDP Protocol (User Datagram Protocol)
It sits next to TCP and can be used directly to support fast, connectionless, unreliable transport of data packets.

HTTP Protocol (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol)
It is the protocol that web browsers and servers use to transfer hypertext pages and images.

HTTP Working
When a client requests a file from an HTTP server (the action is called "hit"), it simply sends the name of the file in a special
format to a pre-defined port and reads back the contents of the file. The server also responds with a status code to tell the
client whether or not the request can be fulfilled and why.

Internet Address (IPv4 and IPv6)
An Internet address is a number that uniquely identifies each computer on the Internet. IPv4 is an Internet address scheme
which consists of 32-bit values organized as four 8-bit values. IPv6 is an Internet address scheme which consists of 128-bit 
values organized as eight 16-bit values.

Domain Name
It is the name of an Internet address which describes a machine's location in a namespace e.g. www.github.com is in the
"com" top-level domain, it is called "github" and "www" identifies the server for web requests.

DNS (Domain Name Service)
It maps an Internet domain name to an IP address. This enables us to work with domain names, but the Internet operates
on the IP addresses.



 